https://peripheralreview.com/2021/06/30/fermentation-for-the-spirit-auto-reflections-on-the-rise-of-sourdough-art-other-glutinous-practices-part-1/
> We ask, then, what can the practice of fermentation for bread, kombucha, pickled vegetables, and preserves offer us materially, theoretically, socially, and politically? We suggest it offers a framework for thinking through <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">multispecies relations, reframing anthropocentric reproduction and storytelling, as a potential mode to fabulate communities in the ruins of late-stage capitalism and climate crisis.</mark>  <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">Thinking with fermentation requires thinking with the durational processes of decay and rot, time and rest.</mark> It means thinking with cultural foodways that have been violently altered by colonization and extractive capitalism, as well as neoliberal discourses of sustainability and care, and the concomitant cultural normalization of eating disorders, orthorexia, and greenwashed dieting. Thinking with fermentation requires a curiosity about <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">the subversive possibilities of food and fermentation practices</mark> , including wheat/gluten fermentation in sourdough bread.


https://peripheralreview.com/2021/07/26/fermentation-for-the-spirit-auto-reflections-on-the-rise-of-sourdough-art-and-glutinous-practices-part-3/
##### Reflections on the effectiveness of art and food writing as commentary. 
>At times I have felt that there is potential for a politics of fermentation, a kind of transformation at a microbial level that might resonate infinitely outwards towards systems of food justice, preservation, and sovereignty. I have also felt a longing for more practical and direct change; I have been critical of the limitations of writing about fermentation, or writing about any embodied process as a framework and metaphor for some larger cultural transformation. These fluctuating feelings from excitement to discouragement always lead me back to one question: Can writing be revolutionary? In referencing countercultural movements that birthed mutual aid as we understand it now (though the idea has been around for centuries), and in pointing out the tenuous relationship between art, criticism, and food, I’ve hoped to inspire a revolt against criticism as theory, and theory as inherently limiting. When these various disciplines and thematics are brought together through autobiography and embodied forms, can they sit more deeply in the minds of readers? Can they inspire more potentially revolutionary outcomes? Can writing cause real structural change?

##### Nurturing a material practice through food-making
> I think we can embrace with ongoing curiosity the possibilities of fermentation as a material practice and a metaphor, including the fermentation of wheat for making sourdough and other breads.

##### The complexities around food 
>A few weeks into the pandemic lockdown, a meme began trending with an image of actor Donald Glover as his character on the TV show _Community_, looking ready to start baking sourdough, next to another image of Glover in his music video for “This Is America” from 2018, looking ready to abolish the police. The meme embodies the humour of these rapid changes in left-leaning culture: to go from the happy-go-lucky sourdough baker to the apocalypse-ready revolutionary. Both “trends” were arguably two sides of the same coin, a sweeping need for social change tied to structural concerns, be they food justice or policing and institutional violence. They also came at a time when imagining new systems and structures was (and remains) urgently required.