> I'm currently noodling on an idea... _**in which disciplines/functions is self-learning most feasible in?**_ One way of looking at it is that the ability to self-learn is a function of: 1.) getting started with little cost while also 2.) getting feedback quickly (see super rough plot of what I mean). How I'm thinking about this: - Disciplines like programming/analytics have super fast feedback loops, you are given (near) real time errors when something is off. That forces you to adapt and learn. The cost of getting started is also very low, given the wealth of free content and resources out there. All you need is an internet connection & a computer (hence why I marked as Green) - Disciplines like Biology / Medicine / Law either have really low rate of feedback (particularly in biology where scientific method governs the field) or the cost of credentialing is so high to break into the field. That's why these don't feel ripe for self-learning (hence why I marked as Red) - Economics is interesting in that I believe the cost of educating yourself is rather low, all the principles are well documented. It's really held back by a low rate of feedback in traditional environments. However, I really see this changing in organizations that heavily skew marketplaces/gig-economy... companies like Uber/Doordash/Instacart/Airbnb have teams of economists that are really data scientists applying domain expertise to design policies with a much tighter feedback loop What do you think? _**Does this framework sound right? Feel free to poke holes in it**_ or _What fields/disciplines would you add to it?_